All right, let's build the Android app.
So for Android development,
we will use Android studio.
So Android studio is the go to integrated
development environment for Android.
They actually also recently had a huge
upgrade to arctic fox, which is this so
they've changed the UI.
So the UI now like when you
launch it looks different.
But all you need to do is we go open.
And we find where our project is, so
mine is in projects mood tracker.
And then similarly to what we did in IOS,
just select the folder for Android and
open it to then you don't need to worry
about which file exactly to open.
All right, so
just going to load your workspace.
And notice that I spent quite a lot of
time talking about pods for IOS, but
I didn't talk about anything
related that for Android.
Well, it's because Android dependency
management is done differently.
It's kind of done behind the scenes,
but by the build tool.
So Android uses gradle for
dependency management.
And if you look at the bottom
right corner here,
you can see what would the editors doing.
So when you load the editor,
it's like configuring plugins,
making sure your project is up to date.
And then when I build it, it actually
downloads the missing plugins and
builds the app.
So for Android,
we're going to use an emulator.
So emulators you can configure
within Android studio.
So if you click on ADD manager, which is
this little phone with the Android face on
it, and you can choose, if you
haven't got a virtual device already,
you can choose create virtual device.
And you can choose the device.
Usually I would choose like
the latest operating system.
But obviously if you test other
operating systems like older versions,
you can create a device specific for that.
Personally, I actually mostly do my
Android development on a physical device.
So I have an Android phone that I use for
testing.
And I plug it in and
I find it more convenient than
using the emulators on a Mac.
But in this case,
just because I want a screen share,
I'm going to use a virtual device.
So I'm going to use the pixel five,
so I'm gonna launch it.
Okay.
Looks like greater list and
all these things.
So I'm going to choose pixel
five from this list of devices.
If you had your own Android device plugged
in, it should appear here on the list and
you can choose that instead.
I'm gonna run the app.
So this will take a little
while to build as well.
So now we have both our IOS app and
our Android app.
I will be looking more into xcode and
Android studio later on when we
restore native dependencies.
For now,
we let's move on to the next section.